I haven't seen any
any thing that's happened in the Holy
Land change American politics as much as
the Israel Gaza conflict has changed US
politics in the last few years. The
Democratic Party was trending in a less
Zionist direction, less supportive of
Israel. But it seems like that trend has
just been absolutely turbocharged. And
the Republican party is still very
pro-Israel. But you can see that also
shifting in some polling, especially
among younger Republicans. And you don't
have to look very far on the internet to
find right-wing factions that are sort
of frankly anti-sionist with
>> the Tucker wing of the party,
>> right? Which is a real, you know,
there's and again there's been a Pat
Buchanan wing of the Republican party
for a long time, but it just seems like
the current environment has has shifted
things on both right and left. Do you
agree? Like do you think the change how
how big do you think that change is? the
these were these were trends that you
can date back over a decade. Um even at
the beginning of the second inifada at
the turn of this century you started to
see um uh the left at least the hard
left in in in America take an
increasingly anti-Israel turn and that
left has expanded on the wings of you
know the Sander Bernie Sanders campaign
and and other left-wing uh uh populists.
So I see it more as an evolution
um rather than a kind of a sudden shift
on account of the last uh 20 or so
months of um of war. And it's the same
thing with the Republican party. Before
there was Tucker, uh there was Pat
Buchanan. Whether the anti-Israel wing
of the Democratic party becomes the
dominant wing, um I think that's that's
quite possible. I'm more skeptical that
it would happen on the Republican side.
I mean, I think on the Republican side,
you have a, you know, a sort of core
constituency in evangelical Christians
that is supportive of Israel for not
just sort of one specific theological
reason, but a whole host of reasons
going back culturally, arguably, to the
to the 18th century. there's sort of a
lot of interesting threads in terms of
American attitudes towards Israel that
long predate the actual refounding of
the state of Israel.
>> At the same time, like I feel like I'm,
you know, fairly well aware of trends
among young right-leaning voters. You
know, I was I was around for Pat
Buchanan. It feels more substantial than
the Buchananite moment. It feels like
there's a skepticism of the American
relationship to Israel that has taken
root on the right in a stronger way than
I can remember in my in my lifetime.
>> I think and I'm speculating that this is
simply a function of the Republican turn
to a kind of uh broader skepticism about
foreign alliances of any stripe. The
same people who I think would tell you
that they're opposed to American
supplies, military supplies to Ukraine,
uh aren't very happy about our alliance
with uh uh with Israel. The same people
who are trade protectionists would also
be be um kind of not if not hostile, at
least skeptical of our of our support
for for the Israelis. But it's a good
argument at some point soon for the
Israelis simply to wean themselves
completely from American uh military
aid. Israel is a half trillion dollar
economy with a incredibly robust um uh
domestic uh military set of military
industries. the Israelis do not need to
be getting $3 billion of American
taxpayer money even though most of that
money goes to Boeing and and Loheed
Martin and a few other defense
contractors.
>> Well, so I guess that yeah that that
gets to one of my questions here, right,
which is that is this a reality that
Israeli policy makers should consider as
a factor in their own decision-m? If I
were the defense minister or prime
minister of Israel, I would set the goal
that by say 2030,
all of the munitions that Israel uses
are produced in Israel or at least um um
mostly produced in Israel. That Israel
should be able to defend itself. I mean,
the Israelis like to say, "We want to
defend ourselves by ourselves." But the
Israelis should have the confidence of
knowing that they do not have to rely on
the goodwill of any American president,
whether it's Lara Trump or Hunter Biden
when he becomes president. That's that's
a joke. Um, but you never know.
>> He's sticking with painting. No, but but
not not Hunter Biden, but Alexandri
Casiocortez, right? Let's say, you know,
some some figure associated with the
with the current American left. Well, I
do think that when we get out of the
Democratic corridor of um AOCC's
district or maybe the People's Republic
of uh Mamani in in a few months time
that you'll find most Democrats that I
meet take a much more level-headed um
view of our relationship with uh with
Israel. the potential frontr runners for
the next Democratic presidential uh
candidate. I don't see any of them
coming from the anti-Israel wing of the
Democratic party. What I do see is a
Democratic party that is elevating
voices that um that have many views,
among them strident anti-Israeli views
that are going to harm the party's
chances in the next electoral cycle.
>> I mean, I guess it it depends on how you
define anti-Israel, right? But from what
I can see from polling when it comes
specifically at least to the war in Gaza
and but also support for bombing of Iran
and so on, right? Like I would say a
reflective hostility to Israeli policy
is a dominant view in the Democratic
coalition right now.
>> Is that Josh Shapiro's view, Andy
Basher's view, Wes Moore's view? I think
what you're seeing is a Democratic party
that has a progressive insurgency
uh within it. Um but rank and file
Democrats are very ambivalent about that
insurgency and its views on many
subjects of which Israel is one of them.
Um now who knows what what the future
will bring. You know I I I was so
spectacularly wrong about the direction
of the Republican party say in 2014
2015. So I I need to I need to be a
little mindful of the mistakes that I've
made uh I've made in the past. But I
don't see a Democratic party being
effectively taken over by this
progressive uh wing because it's not uh
progressive at some level. It's it's
it's
hostile to the views of middle class
Americans.
>> What about the part of this that isn't
about Israeli strategy and you know sort
of US policy towards Israel, but it's
about American culture,
>> right? So again, you and I would both
agree there's been a surge in
anti-Israel sentiment
>> and anti-semitism.
>> Well, right. I assume that you think
that anti-Zionism, anti critiques of
Israel's policy shade really easily into
anti-semitism, right?
>> Yes. I mean, there one is the um um the
entry drug into the other.
>> Can you criticize Israel without
becoming anti-semitic?
>> Of course you can. And you know, this is
one of the points that I tear my hair
out. Look, you want to see the most uh
asserbic critic of uh criticism of
Israel, um go to the Harets's uh
website, leading Israeli uh paper. Um
Israelis criticize Israeli politics all
the time when it comes to every issue
imaginable. There are no sacred cows.
There are no uh uh uh red lines. In
fact, some of the most strident
anti-ionist voices will often refer to
Israelis writing in harets to kind of
wash themselves of accusations of of
anti-semitism.
Let me just make this baseline point
because again, criticism of Israeli
policy can be mistaken,
but it's always legitimate.
But anti-ionism is not criticism solely
of Israeli policy. Anti-Zionism is
criticism of the existence of the state
of Israel as a state that has the right
to uh the right to exist. So, it's a
little bit different. I mean, if if if
people hate Donald Trump, um by all
means hate Donald Trump, but that
doesn't make you anti-American, right?
It doesn't make you want to destroy the
United States because you can't stand
the policies of of the Trump
administration. Anti-Zionism
is the belief that a Jewish state does
not have a right to exist. Now, I would
accept that that argument isn't
anti-Semitic if people said a Japanese
state doesn't have the right to exist or
a Icelandic state doesn't have the right
to exist.
>> I mean, in fairness, in in our own time,
I would say that that argument has often
come bundled with progressive views that
generally ethnostates are illegitimate.
I do think that there is a I've yet to
see a protest outside of the Icelandic
uh mission to the UN saying down with
Iceland uh an ethnically homogeneous
state or down with Japan which has uh
tends to treat um minorities in a
discriminatory way or down with Denmark
because the Danish Lutheran Church
enjoys certain tax advantages against
other faiths in uh in Denmark. I would
say
>> uniquely uniquely aimed at one
ethnostate that happens to be the Jewish
state. And if you are a Jew whose life
story is about um a mother in hiding in
the Holocaust and a grandfather who fled
the Poggram and Kishv, you have the
right to to a skeptical eyebrow and
say, "Why us?"
>> So, one, I I agree. I think that there
is what you might call just a persistent
excess in the way the case against
Israel is prosecuted, especially on the
left, sometimes on the right, that is
hard to explain without talking about
anti-semitism as this kind of constant
temptation. If you watch internet
culture, right, sort of play itself out,
it is kind of fascinating in a morbid
way that the pull of, you know, you've
gone through four levels of
disillusionment and the fifth level of
disillusionment, you're going to blame
the Jews, right? It there is some sort
of eternal recurrence of that tendency.
All I'm saying is that there is also a
tendency where arguments about Israel
and Palestine are connected to arguments
about American history and American
identity. I agree nobody's protesting
the you know the existence of Iceland
but plenty of people are invested in the
idea that you know France or the UK or
Europe broadly should become a kind of
multi-thnic multi-religious society and
they again I'm describing people on the
left they see their view of you know
some kind of bational future for Israel
as as part of that. I think there is a
continuum here that runs from
anti-semitism in excess through sort of
other arguments in in leftwing politics.
>> That's that's fair and true. Which is
why which is why I worry right in an age
when the left is a very important part
of western culture and American culture
right
>> about the darker pull right the extent
to which there is this sort of inherent
pull towards overt or tacid
anti-semitism in these debates and I
just feel like that pull has just
clearly gotten stronger because of the
Gaza war. No, it happened before the
Gaza war. And the best evidence of this
was that uh the protests um the
accusations that Israel is committing
genocide happened on October 8th and the
Israelis had barely were we're still
clearing out Hamas from from their own
territory. It's not as if suddenly this
terrible Gaza war happened and the left
said, "Oh gez, you know, these people
are terrible. You know, look at what
they're what they're doing." all of the
feelings, the entire um architecture of
approprium and hatred was in place on
October 6th so that these people would
celebrate on October 8th. And one of the
most shocking experiences to me as a Jew
was going on the 8th of October to a
protest that had been hastily arranged
in which people were look the expression
on people's faces in the wake of this
unbelievable massacre was was euphoria.
So, so when people say, "Well, this is
the result of the war in Gaza." I'm
sorry, but that's just that doesn't
explain the letter from however many
Harvard organizations that putting the
blame entirely on on these on on the
Israelis. It doesn't explain the
protests in Sydney um calling on them to
uh f the Jews. This hatred was there.
And you know, it is true that people are
against ethnostates sort of in theory,
but you have to ask, why is Israel the
object of an obsessive hatred? And it's
not because it's American taxpayers,
because you're seeing the same kind of
protests and the same kind of hatred in
Melbourne and Sydney and any number of
other places I've visited that
contribute nothing to Israel's defense.